Introduce edgestitch (#61)
powerhome/power-tools: packages/edgestitch/docs/README.md

# Rakefile

Edgestitch.define_engine(::My::Application)
```

### Engines

Each internal engine will also have a development dependency on `edgestitch`, and can install it the same way:

```ruby
# crazy.gemspec

spec.add_development_dependency "edgestitch"
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle install

And install the helper tasks:

```ruby
Edgestitch.define_engine(::Crazy::Engine)
```

You'll also have to add the `railtie` to the dummy app (as they're dummy umbrella apps), in case the engine has external database dependencies.

```ruby
# spec/dummy/config/application.rb

require "edgestitch/railtie"
```

## Usage

Edgestitch will enhance the default rails tasks, so using nothing special has to be done in order to use it. Once edgestitch is correctly installed things should Just Work™️ as explained in the rails manual, but it will be generating `structure-self.sql` along with `structure.sql` files. **Important**: It's recommended that `structure.sql` files are added to `.gitignore`.

# How does it work

Edgestitch works based on table and migrations ownership. Based on these ownerships, Edgestitch can export a `structure-self.sql` file defining the DDL owned by a specific engine.

> The stitching process then takes all loaded engines (assuming the dependency between engines is defined correctly) and assembles a structure.sql file.

Author: The problem would be exactly the same.

## Table and Migration Ownerships

A model is owned by an engine when it inherits from the Engine's ApplicationModel, and thus the table is owned by that engine. A migration is owned by the engine if it is defined within its `db/migrate` directory.

## Extra tables

> Sometimes an external dependency brings in extra tables that are not defined in any `structure-self.sql`. To be part of the ecosystem, the new tables should be owned by the engine adding them. That can be done by adding these tables to `<engine>/db/extra_tables`. It's a simple text file with a list of table names that do not inherit from `<Engine>::AplicationModel`, but are owned by that engine and should be included in its structure-self.sql.

Author: ```suggestion
When an external dependency brings in extra tables (i.e. acts_as_taggable) that are not defined in any `structure-self.sql`. To be part of the ecosystem, the new tables should be owned by the engine adding them. That can be done by adding these tables to `<engine>/db/extra_tables`. It's a simple text file with a list of table names that do not inherit from `<Engine>::AplicationModel`, but are owned by that engine and should be included in its structure-self.sql.
```

What about this?

> Sometimes an external dependency brings in extra tables that are not defined in any `structure-self.sql`. To be part of the ecosystem, the new tables should be owned by the engine adding them. That can be done by adding these tables to `<engine>/db/extra_tables`. It's a simple text file with a list of table names that do not inherit from `<Engine>::AplicationModel`, but are owned by that engine and should be included in its structure-self.sql.

Reviewer: This clarifies so much! It also brings up more questions of how we need to educate developers on this gotcha. Will this problem always be caught in CI or is it possible for the issue to get merged and be there for days/weeks before anyone notices?

## External Gems

An external gem can also define a `structure-self.sql` file to be adapted in this ecosystem. That can be done using the same approach specified in Installation / Engines.

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

> To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and the created tag, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

Author: ```suggestion
To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`.
```

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/powerhome/power-tools.

## License

> The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Author: <3
